README.md, before:

# vector_c

`std::vector` in C++ implemented simply and minimally in C.  
The repository contains specific type `vectorDot` using with `struct Dot`, and general purpose one `vector` which you need to cast to specific struct and supply creation function with size of struct.

# Build & Run

Build the project with `make`.  
You will see two executable files `vector`, and `vectorDot`.

Clean with `make clean`.

# Note

## Specific struct

Use `vectorDot.h` and `vectorDot.c` to integrate with your main source code.  
See example code at `vectorDot_test.c`.

This type passes by value.

## General purpose

Use `vector.h` and `vector.c` to integrate with your main source code.  
See example code at `vector_test.c`.

This one will do deep copy for input data, so it won't be mess or broken when you change input data from outside, it's separate.
It also accepts custom memory freeing function if your element needs a proper memory care. Just set its `free_element` function pointer to yours in `free_element(void* element)` signature.

# License

[MIT](https://github.com/haxpor/vector_c/blob/master/LICENSE), Wasin Thonkaew

Commit message:

Add vector_clear to clear all element, and ignore file for git
When use clear, it will shrink down memory to only 1 in estimated number
of element.

README.md, after:

# vector_c

`std::vector` in C++ implemented simply and minimally in C.  
The repository contains specific type `vectorDot` using with `struct Dot`, and general purpose one `vector` which you need to cast to specific struct and supply creation function with size of struct.

# Build & Run

Build the project with `make`.  
You will see two executable files `vector`, and `vectorDot`.

Clean with `make clean`.

# Note

## Specific struct

Use `vectorDot.h` and `vectorDot.c` to integrate with your main source code.  
See example code at `vectorDot_test.c`.

This type passes by value.

## General purpose

Use `vector.h` and `vector.c` to integrate with your main source code.  
See example code at `vector_test.c`.

This one will do deep copy for input data, so it won't be mess or broken when you change input data from outside, it's separate.
It also accepts custom memory freeing function if your element needs a proper memory care. Just set its `free_element` function pointer to yours in `free_element(void* element)` signature.

When using `vector_clear()` it will shrink down allocated memory to only 1 element waiting to be filled, and will expand again if there's new element added.

# License

[MIT](https://github.com/haxpor/vector_c/blob/master/LICENSE), Wasin Thonkaew
